What if I wanna use this newsletter
form on a different page?
Do I have to make that page pre render or
server rendered as well?
The answer is no.
And this is why I love this
hybrid rendering so much.
So why don't we just go ahead and
add this to our homepage now.
So the first thing I need is we're
gonna add a newsletter image so
we can go back up into
our workshop assets.
We've got this newsletter.jpg,
so copy that, and
then come down to your images and
paste it in here.
And I think that might be
the end of the workshop assets.
We're in the homestretch here.
We're gonna get this running and
then we're off to the races with Astro.
So the next thing I wanna do,
I'm gonna close all these down and
let's make that big again and
I'm gonna open up our home page.
So let's add a newsletter
to our home page.
So to do that I'm gonna come
up to import our newsletter
image from images and newsletter.jpeg.
And then down here,
we wanna add one more section.
And this one has a class of block and
then newsletter.
Inside, we're going to add our image
as a source of newsletter image.
The newsletter image, give an Alt,
civil say bag with the word
sandwich superimposed on it and
that's everything for that image.
So then we're gonna set up some copies so
we'll give a class of copy.
So this is the nudge for somebody
why they would join this newsletter.
So for ours, we're gonna say,
prefer your sandwiches to go?
Can you tell that I wanted
to be a copywriter also?
And then we're gonna say,
get the sandwich newsletter to hear
what else qualifies as a sandwich first.
All right, and
then we're gonna drop in that form again.
So we can get the same
form that we had here.
With one small difference which
is that we are not going to
include this class list,
we actually don't need the class at all.
We do want a class we're gonna change
it back to a regular class and
give it a class of newsletter-form.
The way that forms work as
a reminder to myself is,
so we set the method and
then we gave it a class but
we didn't tell it where to submit to,
so it's submit to itself.
All right, so we have to give it
an action to tell it where to submit to.
And we built that newsletter
page to handle form submissions.
So we add this action of newsletter, and
that now is going to send
it to the right place.
So let's try that one more time.
Subscribe, there we go.
We're on this.
We're on the newsletter page.
It did a server render,
it handled that post submission.
And it shows us that we did in fact,
subscribe.
Now does this one work
without JavaScript enabled?
Let's find out.
It does, right?
So this, this is, I think,
a good example of like.
Some of the things that we
think are really complicated,
they're complicated because we're
compensating for things that were
made harder by tools that were made
to compensate for challenges, right?
And so by by taking a step back and
looking at what does the browser do,
what does the platform do?
We can skip some of that really
complicated stuff of capturing the form
submission event and then managing it.
We don't have to do that
on the server side.
on the client side.
We can just say, was this form submitted?
Great.
Do some stuff with it.
This is very similar to
what we used to do in PHP.
This is very similar to what you would
have done in any back-end language if you
were working in really whatever,
since the dawn of the Web.
If a form gets submitted,
you grab the body out of the post and
do some stuff with it, right?
So very familiar from a server standpoint.
And we didn't have to compensate for
like, the way that frameworks have
changed events or the way that
something makes it all client side.
And now we're trying to figure out how to
do the same things that we would do on
the server on the client side.
It just allows us to really
take the idea through
the platform to production in
a very short span of time.
And, to that end, let me turn
JavaScript back on before I forget,
because otherwise I'm gonna
be really confused later.
So, we just built a very complicated
website in the span of features, right?
We've got a homepage with Hero components.
We've got previews of different data
that's loaded from third-party API's.
We've got form submissions being handled.
We've got a full on E-commerce store,
including a shopping cart
that's actually running.
You can add things up and go with that.
We've got a blog including
like content collections and
RSS feed individual blog pages with URLs.
We're writing in Markdown where it
makes sense to write in Markdown and
all of that was built in the span
of what half a day, right?
These are the types of frameworks that
when I get the chance to work with them,
I'm so excited because not once
today did I have to think,
how do I get my tool to do
the thing that I wanted to do?
I got to say,
how does the browser do that?
And then I did it, right?
And so I think that to me, I get so
excited because it means that what
I'm spending my mental energy on and
what I'm spending my time on is building
the idea on building the feature.
Building the thing that I
was either hired to build or
that I'm excited to build
as a hobby project.
I don't get to do that very often.
I feel like I spend a lot
of time wrestling tools.
I spend a lot of time trying to figure
out how to get the thing that is in
production, to stop doing
the special things so
it can just do the thing I want it to do.
And I love that Astro
doesn't take that stance.
They very much are like let's get
this framework out of the way.
Use the platform and
let people just ship their ideas,
get stuff out of their heads and
into production in a few hours, right?